E3-The NavalTreaty
There's nobody there,
there's nobody there!
Help me, help me,
help me, help me!
There's nobody there!
Help me, help me,
help me, help, help!
Treachery, ruined, ruined,
[inaudible] England!
Holmes, Holmes?
Holmes?
You come as a crisis,
Watson!
Help yourself to tobacco
from the Persian slipper.
I shall be at your service
in an instant.
If this remains blue,
all is well.
If it turns red,
it's a man's life.
I thought as much.
Mrs. Hudson!
Would you find Billy,
please,
and tell him to dispatch
these telegrams without delay.
Thank you.
Oh, Sit down, Watson.
A commonplace
little murder!
You have something
more interesting, I fancy.
You are the stormy petrel
of crime, Watson.
What is it?
I've had a letter from a boy
I was at school with.
I think you
should read it.
Percy Phelps,
brilliant boy,
carried off every prize
the school had to offer,
went on to fresh
triumphs at Cambridge.
I must confess,
he'd passed completely
out of my mind until this.
"My Dear Watson:
I have no doubt you remember
Tadpole Phelps,
who was in the third form
when you were in the fifth.
It's possible
you may have heard
that through
my uncle's influence
I obtained a good appointment
at the Foreign Office."
His uncle's Lord Holdhurst.
"And that I was in a position
of trust and honor
till a horrible misfortune came
suddenly to blast my career."
Yes, his gaudy connections
did him little good at school.
It seemed to us
a piquant thing
to chevy him about
the playground,
hit him over
the shins with a wicket.
"Do you think you could bring
your friend Mr. Holmes
down to see me?"
That doesn't tell us much.
Hardly anything.
But the writing is of interest,
it is a woman's.
No, no,
a man's, surely.
No, a woman's.
At the commencement of a case
it is always something to know
that a client is in
close contact with someone who,
for good or evil,
has an exceptional nature.
You're interested?
Indeed.
Well, if you are ready,
let us start for
Briarbrae House Woking, at once.
Well, my practice--
Oh, oh, oh, oh!
Well, I mean, if your cases
are more interesting than mine.
I was gonna say,
my practice would do very well
for a day or two.
It's the slackest time
of the year.
Excellent.
Then let us visit
this diplomatist
who is in such evil case,
and the lady to whom
he dictates his letters.
Mrs. Hudson, hot water!
Ah, Rose.
Check this for me, would you?
That's a good love.
Mr. Sherlock Holmes?
And this is my colleague
and friend, Dr. Watson.
Dr. Watson,
I'm so glad you've come.
Percy's been inquiring after you
all morning, poor chap.
I perceive that you, yourself,
are not a member of the family?
Of course,
you see my JH monogram.
Now, for a moment I thought
you'd done something clever.
Joseph Harrison
is my name,
and since Percy is betrothed
to my sister Annie,
I shall at least be
a relation by marriage.
You'll find her
in his room,
she's been nursing him
these past two months.
Rose, in the house.
Now, listen,
they're here.
Shall I leave?
No, no.
My dear Watson,
I should never have known you
under that mustache,
and I daresay you wouldn't
be prepared to swear to me.
Not at all,
still the same dear old Tadpole.
And this, I presume,
is your celebrated friend?
Mr. Sherlock Holmes,
Mr. Percy Phelps.
And I'm Miss Harrison.
My fianc , and my nurse.
Please, sit down.
I, uh, I showed Holmes
the letter that you wrote to me.
Yes, I hoped you would.
It was rather short on detail.
Then let me
get straight to the point.
I work as a clerk
in the Foreign Office.
My uncle
is Lord Holdhurst.
When he became Foreign Minister,
he gave me,
ocassional delicate
missions of trust,
which I always managed
to conduct successfully.
I'm sure you did, old chap.
Pray, continue, Mr. Phelps.
Nearly ten weeks ago,
it was the evening
of the 23rd of May,
he called me
into his private room.
Ah, Percy, my dear boy!
Good evening, sir.
You've heard
of the Naval Treaty
that has just been drawn up
between England and ltaly?
I've read rumors
in the press, sir.
Most regrettable,
and it is of
the utmost importance
that nothing further
should leak out.
The French
and Russian embassies
would pay an immense sum
to learn its contents.
This is the original.
It should
not leave my bureau
were it not absolutely necessary
to have it copied.
Take it straight to your office
and lock it up.
Now, remain behind
when the others go,
so that you can work
at your leisure
and without fear
of being overlooked.
And when you have finished,
relock both the original
and the draft in your own desk,
and hand them over to me
personally tomorrow morning.
The very greatest care,
Nephew.
You may rely on it, sir.
This treaty,
can you be more precise
as to its nature?
Well, in outline it defined
the position of Great Britain
towards the Triple Alliance
in the event
of the French fleet
gaining complete ascendancy
over ltaly in the Mediterranean.
I returned straight
to my office
where I found
a colleague of mine,
Mr. Charles Gorot,
still working.
Well, chap,
what did Uncle want?
To congratulate me
on my engagement.
Splendid.
Nothing else?
Some fishing dispute
he wanted me to copy.
You're not still on that
Bulgarian piece, are you?
It's extremely long-winded
and tiresome,
and I am fagged out
for the night.
You working late again?
Just a few things.
You want to slack off a bit,
old man.
Ambition is a fine thing
and all that,
but do not neglect
the beautiful Miss Harrison.
Some other chap
might step in.
She wouldn't have you, Charles.
Well, not me, old man.
I've got my Daphne.
Goodnight to you.
Goodnight.
You made sure that he was gone
before you started work?
Quite sure,
and I copied as fast as I could,
for I knew that Joseph,
my fianc 's brother--
We met him in the garden.
He was in town,
and was traveling back to Woking
by the 11:00 o'clock train.
And I wanted to catch it,
if possible.
But it was a long document?
Written in French.
By 9:00 o'clock,
I was feeling drowsy
and scarcely a third
of the way through.
I thought a cup of coffee
might clear my brain,
so I rang the commissioner
who stays on duty all night
in a small lodge
at the bottom of the stairs.
To my surprise, it was a woman
who answered the summons.
I'm sorry, I was ringing
for Mr. Tangey.
I'm his wife, sir,
I do the char work
in this building.
Ah, well, I was wondering if you
might bring me a cup of coffee.
I'll go and ask him, sir.
This woman,
you've never noticed her
in the building before?
Never.
The coffee was some time coming,
so I went down to investigate.
Leaving the room unguarded?
Yes.
I found Tangey--asleep.
Mr. Phelps, sir,
I'm very sorry, sir.
I must have just
dropped off for a moment.
Your coffee, sir.
Well, if you're here, sir,
who's ringing the bell?
Bell, what bell is it?
It's the bell in the room
in which you're working, sir.
You ran back upstairs
and the document was gone
from your desk.
Yes!
God no--
You passed
no one in the corridor?
No one,
there was no one!
And the room
and the corridor
all seemed exactly
as I'd left it!
Percy has drawn a rough chart
of the building, Mr. Holmes,
which he thought
might be of use.
Yes, yes, that's of the utmost
importance, Mr. Holmes.
Yes, I think
I quite follow it.
On your discovery of the theft,
what did you do then?
Well, I recognized
in an instant
the thief must have come up
through the side door.
This one here.
Yes, of course.
Well, you'd have met him
if he'd come the other way.
And you are satisfied that they
could not have been concealed
in the room
or in the corridor?
Absolutely impossible.
All the other doors
were locked.
Strict
Foreign Office regulations.
There was no cover at all.
A rat couldn't have
concealed himself there.
Tangey and I both rushed out
down the stairs that lead
into Charles Street.
Mr. Phelps!
The door at
the bottom was closed, unlocked.
It was dark, raining.
There was no one!
But I distinctly remember
the three-quarters of Big Ben.
A quarter to ten.
That is of
enormous importance.
They came out here,
you see, Holmes.
On the corner
we found a policeman,
but he'd seen no one
leave the building
in the last
quarter of an hour
except for
the Commissioner's wife,
so we ran
through to Whitehall.
It was full of traffic,
people coming and going,
all only too eager
to find a place of shelter
on so wet a night.
No lounger to tell you
who'd passed?
None.
Had it been raining
all evening?
Since about 7:00.
Ah, this chain of events
is certainly of
extraordinary interest.
And so you returned
to the office,
examined it, I presume,
to see if the intruder
had left any traces;
muddy foot marks, any cigar end,
or dropped glove, hairpin?
There was nothing.
Except the tangible fact
that the Commissioner's wife
had run out of the building
not ten minutes earlier.
What did you do next,
Mr. Phelps?
The constable
alerted Scotland Yard.
It was then
for the first time
the full horror of
my situation came upon me.
I'd been so confident
of regaining the treaty,
I dared not think--
Watson will tell you
I was a nervous,
sensitive boy at school.
It's my nature.
I thought of my uncle,
his cabinet colleagues,
the shame I'd brought
upon them, myself,
everyone connected with me.
Although I was the victim
of an accident,
there are no allowance for
accidents in diplomatic circles.
Ruined,
shamefully,
hopelessly ruined!
Steady on, old chap.
Stand back,
will you, Holmes.
Is the investigation concluded?
Adjourned.
Poor old Percy,
terrible strain, all this,
career in the balance.
It seems not to have affected
your sister's devotion.
How long has she known
Mr. Phelps?
Well, they met
in Northumberland in the winter.
Percy was traveling
on government business
in that part
of the world.
It was love
at first sight.
Do your people approve
of the match?
Indeed, Mr. Holmes,
especially when they learned
of Percy's connection
with Lord Holdhurst.
My father is an iron-master,
and a staunch supporter
of the Conservative Party.
She came down here
to meet Percy's people,
and you came as escort?
That's right,
just before they left
for America.
The, um, the wedding
is planned for September,
if the poor chap recovers.
I suppose you only intended
a short visit,
and then came the smash?
Mm.
May I ask you
what your occupation is
that allows you to while away
the summer in Woking?
As the eldest son,
Mr. Holmes,
I have expectations of
inheriting my father's business.
I also dabble in
stocks and shares,
which grants me
a certain independence.
My apologies if
my question offended you.
On the night
of May the 23rd,
had you arranged to
meet Mr. Phelps at Waterloo
to take the 11:00 o'clock
train together?
No.
That may have been
his intention,
he knew I was in London
dining with my stockbroker.
But I wasn't expecting
to meet him.
Then thank you for your time,
Mr. Harrison.
Shall I, um,
and would you, the sick room.
Mr. Holmes,
I do apologize.
I feel calmer now, thanks to
Watson's ministration.
Gently with him, Holmes.
Ah.
Mr. Phelps,
there is just the matter
of the Commissioner's wife.
Yes, of course.
As I remember, shortly after
our return to my office,
Inspector Forbes
of the Yard
arrived to take up the case
with considerable energy.
We hired a hansom,
and within half an hour
we were at the Tangeys' home
in Brixton.
The door was opened
by his eldest daughter.
Hey, what do you want?
Is your mother at home?
Not yet.
She does a night job--
cleaning.
We'll wait for her,
if you don't mind.
In here.
And you get back in here,
now go on, and shut the door.
After about ten minutes,
we heard the front door,
and here we made
one serious mistake
for which I blame myself.
Mum, there's two men in
the parlor wants to talk to ya'.
Oh, my God!
If it isn't Mr. Phelps
of the office.
Come, come,
who did you think we were
when you ran away from us?
I thought you was the bailiffs.
We've had some trouble
with a tradesman.
Here, let go,
let go, let--
We've reason to believe
that you've taken a paper
of importance
from the Foreign Office,
and you ran in here
to dispose of it.
Now, you better come back
with us to Scotland Yard
to be searched.
Get your hands off me!
I didn't take no paper!
That will be enough--
There will be peace and quiet.
Mr. Phelps...no, stop it!
You made a full examination
of the kitchen?
Yes.
There was no sign
of the documents.
A four-wheeler was brought
and we all three drove back
in it to Scotland Yard.
I waited in
an agony of suspense
until the female searcher
came back with her report.
They found nothing.
After that,
I have no clear recollection.
I believe a police officer
drove me to Waterloo
where by the merest
good fortune,
I met Dr. Ferrier,
who lives near us
and was traveling
down by the next train.
The train you caught now
would have been?
The 11:40, I think.
Dr. Ferrier most kindly
took charge of me.
Just as well he did,
for I had a fit in the station
and before we reached home I was
practically a raving lunatic.
Your brother
had already returned?
Yes.
I was surprised, but not unduly
worried that he was alone.
Percy often worked late, and
I knew there was another train.
So I went to bed.
And sometime after midnight?
I was woken by the most
fearful commotion in the hall.
Bring him in here,
bring him in here!
Oh, God...
Your brother was sleeping
down here in this room?
Yes.
My family were taking advantage
of their trip to America
to have several of the upstairs
bedrooms redecorated.
It was evident that poor Percy
was in for a long illness.
So, Joseph
was bundled up to my room,
and this was turned
into a sick room for me.
Why, it's a very cheery room.
I have lain here
for nine weeks, delirious.
If it had not been for Miss
Harrison and the doctor's care,
I should not
be speaking to you now.
She nursed me by day,
a hired nurse
looked after me at night,
for in the mad fits
I was capable of anything.
It's only in
the last few days
that my reason
has slowly cleared.
I've wired Inspector Forbes,
but he's told me
no clue has been discovered.
So I turn to you, Mr. Holmes,
as my last hope.
Just one question of the utmost
importance, Mr. Phelps.
Did you tell anyone that you had
this special task to perform?
No one.
Not Miss Harrison,
for example?
No.
I had not been
back to Woking
in between getting the order
and executing the commission.
What a lovely thing a rose is.
There is nothing in which
deduction is so necessary
as in religion.
It can be built up as an exact
science by the reasoner.
Our highest assurance of
the goodness of Providence
seems to me
to rest in the flowers.
It is only goodness
which gives extras,
and so I say again,
we have much to hope for
from the flowers.
Do you see any prospect
of solving this mystery,
Mr. Holmes?
Mystery?
Ah, it would be
absurd to deny
that the case is
abstruse and complicated.
Do you see any clue?
You have furnished me
with seven,
but I must put them
to the test
before I can pronounce
on their value.
You suspect someone?
I suspect...
myself.
What?
Of coming to conclusions
too rapidly.
Then go back to London
and test your conclusions!
Your advice is very excellent,
Miss Harrison.
Mr. Phelps, do not indulge
yourself in false hopes,
the affair is
a very tangled one,
and I am not a magician.
Hey, little varmint!
What do you think
of Miss Harrison?
A good sort,
or I'm mistaken.
I thought you were
rather terse with her.
Was I?
She was only
protecting her loved one.
A little
overprotective, perhaps.
Surely, you don't believe
that she had anything
to do with it?
The most difficult crime
to track down, Watson,
is the one which
is purposeless.
Now, this is
not purposeless,
but who is it
that profits by it?
Well, there's the French
Ambassador, the Russian,
and whoever might sell it
to either of those.
And Lord Holdhurst.
While it is not inconceivable
that a statesman might
find himself in a position
where he was not sorry
to see such a document
accidentally destroyed.
Not a statesman
with the honorable record
of Lord Holdhurst.
George, the Foreign Office,
Charles Street entrance.
George, I want you
to do something for me.
Find the cab
which dropped a fare there
just after half past 9:00
on the evening of May the 23rd.
Gorot, a French name.
Huguenot, actually.
But I'm as English in sympathy
as you are, Mr. Holmes.
Am I under some sort of cloud
because of my name?
Oh, no, no,
Holmes has a French grandmother.
I'd make yourself scarce if you
want to avoid Inspector Forbes.
We've arranged to meet him here
in five minutes.
Yes, I have
been questioned by him already.
I shall do as you say.
Goodnight to you both.
Goodnight.
No secret doors,
the windows quite
30 feet above the ground,
fastened on
the inner side.
The carpet prevents any
possibility of a trap door.
Now, whoever rang
the bell rope
must have come
right over to the desk.
Why ring it?
I mean, was it the thief,
out of bravado?
Or was it someone with the thief
who tried to prevent the crime?
Or was it--
Inspector Forbes,
I believe.
Mr. Holmes,
I'm a very busy man.
I have other cases
besides this one.
But none so vital to the
national interest, I'll wager.
May I introduce my friend
and colleague, Dr. Watson?
What do you
want from me, Holmes?
I know about your methods.
You're ready enough
to use our information,
then you try and finish
the case yourself
and bring discredit on us.
On the contrary,
in my last 53 cases,
my name has
appeared in only 4
and the police have
the credit in 49.
I don't blame you
for not knowing this,
you are young
and inexperienced.
But if you wish
to get on in your duties
you will work with me
and not against me!
Now, then, what steps
have you taken?
Tangey, the commissioner,
we've cleared.
He left the Guards
with a good character.
His wife is a bad lot,
though, she drinks.
What about the clerk, Gorot?
He's been shadowed
all these nine weeks.
We can show
nothing against him.
Have you formed any theory
about how this bell rang?
No.
I must confess,
that beats me.
It was a cool hand,
whoever it was,
to go and give
the alarm like that.
Yes, yes, it was
a very queer thing to do.
Well, many thanks,
Inspector,
and if I can put this thief
in your hands,
you shall hear from me.
Come along, Watson.
May I ask where
you're going now?
To interview Lord Holdhurst,
the Cabinet Minister
and very possibly
the next Premier of England.
Good evening, Inspector.
I can't pretend, Mr. Holmes,
that I am ignorant of
the reason for your visit,
but in whose interests
are you acting, may I ask?
In the part
of Mr. Percy Phelps.
Ah, my unfortunate nephew.
You can understand
that our kinship
makes it the more impossible
for me to screen him in any way.
Yes, but if the document
is found, Lord Holdhurst?
That, of course,
would be different.
Lord Holdhurst,
it was in this room
that you gave instructions
for the copying of the document?
It was.
And you mentioned it to
nobody else except your nephew,
you're certain of that?
Absolutely.
Then if nobody
else knew of it,
you would agree that the thief's
presence in your nephew's room
was purely accidental.
I mean, he saw his chance
and took it.
You take me out of my province
there, Mr. Holmes.
There is one other
very important point.
You feared,
so I understand,
that very grave results
might follow from the details
of this treaty becoming known?
Very grave results indeed.
Have they occurred?
Not yet.
If the treaty had reached,
let us say,
the Russian
or the French Foreign Office,
you would expect
to hear of it?
I certainly should.
Then since
nearly ten weeks have elapsed,
it is not unfair
to suppose then
that the treaty for some reason
has not reached them.
But Holmes,
we can hardly suppose
that the thief took the treaty
in order to...
frame it and hang it
on his wall.
Well, perhaps he's waiting
for a better price, Watson.
Or maybe he's
had a sudden illness.
A brain storm,
for example?
I did not say so.
Lord Holdhurst, we have taken up
too much of your valuable time.
Fine fellow,
heavy responsibilities.
Yes, but he has a struggle
to keep up his position,
and he's far from rich.
You noticed, of course,
that his boots had been resoled.
Really?!
I shall do nothing more today
unless I get an answer
to my cab inquiry.
Ah.
All right.
Oh, Watson, I won't
detain you any longer
from your legitimate work.
But I should be
extremely obliged
if you would come down
to Woking with me tomorrow,
the same train
that we took today.
Yes, of course.
Goodnight, Holmes.
No, no, tonight I shall sleep
my own sleep, and alone.
But Percy.
Mr. Holmes has imbued me
with fresh hope,
and I feel
I'm on the mend.
We have an appointment in church
in September, my love,
and I mean to keep it.
He sent the nurse away.
At last.
He puts too much faith
in the great detective.
It's you that's kept
his flame alive,
not some detective.
And you, brother.
Without you
to support me--
Could it be that I am the center
of some monstrous conspiracy,
and that my life is aimed at,
as well as my honor?
I haven't as far as I know,
an enemy in the world!
You certainly have had your
share of misfortune, old chap.
I think I may have
found the spot
where the fella'
scaled the wall!
It's towards the road.
Ah, do you think
this was done last night?
It looks rather old to me.
No, I fancy we shall get
no help there.
Now, why did the intruder choose
the window onto the courtyard?
I should have thought
this side of the house
would have been easier.
It's more visible
from the courtyard.
Ah, yes, of course.
Have you ever had an alarm
like this before?
There's no plate in the house,
or anything to attract burglars?
Nothing of value.
Was there anything
in London?
Well, we've seen
Inspector Forbes,
we've seen your uncle.
Holmes has set one
or two things in motion.
So you've not lost heart.
Oh, by no means!
God bless you
for saying that.
If we keep
our courage and patience,
the truth must come out.
Miss Harrison,
you must remain in this room
for the rest of the day.
It is of vital importance.
Now, tonight,
when you go to bed,
lock that door from the outside
and keep the key.
But Percy?
Tell no one!
Now, quick, promise!
Why are you
moping in here, honey?
Come out in the sunshine.
I'll be your crockie.
I have a slight headache
and this room is deliciously
cool and soothing,
thank you, Joseph.
Mr. Phelps, while we're
investigating this minor affair
we must not lose sight
of our main inquiry.
It would help me very much
if you would come up
to London with us.
Do you feel strong enough?
Yes, if you really think
I can be of help.
Do you want me
to stay the night?
I was on the point
of proposing it.
Then if my friend of the night
comes to visit me,
he'll find the bird flown.
But, what about Annie?
Ah, Mr. Harrison
will look after her,
and my friend Watson will take
care of your medical needs.
Could you be ready to leave
in an hour?
We are all in your hands,
Mr. Holmes.
There are one or two points
I wish to clear up,
and your absence, Mr. Phelps,
will rather assist me.
Watson,
when you reach London
drive our friend
straight to Baker Street
and remain with him
until I see you again.
And now, gentlemen,
I shall leave you.
What about our
investigation in London?!
I hope to be in London
in time for breakfast.
He really is the most
inscrutable fellow, Watson.
Oh, you're still in here.
How's your headache?
A little better.
The first day for nine weeks
without the invalid,
and you choose
to spend it in here.
Force of habit.
Are you dining tonight?
I'm not hungry,
and I'm enjoying my book.
Mm, I understand.
My poor little sister,
what a time you've had.
That'll be Mr. Holmes
returning now, sir.
Thank you, Horace.
He looks like a beaten man.
I confess you may be right.
I'd hoped for so much!
Holmes, you're wounded!
Oh, it's only a scratch
through my own clumsiness.
Good morning, Mr. Phelps,
this case of yours
is certainly one of the darkest
I have ever investigated.
It has been
a remarkable experience.
Oh, come along, Holmes, that
bandage tells of adventures.
Now, what happened?
After breakfast,
my dear Watson.
Remember,
I have breathed
30 miles of Surrey air
this morning.
There's been no answer
to my cab inquiry, I suppose?
Well, one cannot score
every time.
Mrs. Hudson, you have risen
to the occasion.
Won't you join us,
Mr. Phelps?
Now, what's in this?
Curried chicken, sir.
And this?
Ham and eggs.
Her cuisine
is a little limited,
but she has as good an idea
of breakfast as any Scotswoman.
Now, what will you take,
Mr. Phelps, curried fowl, eggs,
or will you help yourself?
Thank you.
I can eat nothing.
Oh, please, try
the dish before you.
Thank you, I would
really rather not.
Oh, well, then, I suppose you
have no objection to helping me?
Oh!
It's the treaty.
My God, it's the treaty!
It's the treaty!
Watson, brandy.
Ah, there, there, there,
it really was too bad of me
to spring it on you like that,
but Watson here
will tell you
that I never can resist
a touch of the dramatic.
God bless you
for saving my honor.
Thank you, Mrs. Hudson.
Oh, thank you for
your many considerations.
A Scotswoman's breakfast,
indeed, a silly bit of paper!
Please, tell me how you got it,
where it was!
After I left you,
I settled myself into
the English countryside
and spent
a charming afternoon.
I remained there until dusk,
and then I returned
to your house.
I clambered over the wall
and made my way
through the undergrowth
until I reached the stables,
just opposite
your bedroom window.
The blind in your window
had not yet been drawn,
and I could see Miss Harrison
reading a book
by the light from a lamp.
It was about a quarter-past ten
when she closed the book,
moved across the room,
carrying the lamp with her.
But I felt quite sure that she
had turned the key in the lock.
Key?
The instructions I gave her,
which she carried out
to the letter.
Mr. Phelps, she is a lady
of rare character.
Without her cooperation,
you would not have that paper
in your hand now.
It was a weary vigil,
but it had the sort of
excitement a sportsman feels
when he lies before
the watercourse
and waits for the big game.
What happened,
what happened?!
It was about 2:00 o'clock
in the morning,
when I heard the gentle sound
of a bolt being pushed back.
All right.
All right, Holmes,
what you gonna do with me?
I've got what I want.
Ow!--Run.
Joseph!
You let him go?!
I wired full particulars
to Inspector Forbes.
If he's quick enough to catch
his bird, well and good.
But if, as I shrewdly suspect,
he finds the nest empty,
why, all the better
for the government.
I fancy Lord Holdhurst,
for one,
and Mr. Percy Phelps
for another,
would much rather the affair
never got to a police court.
My God, do you tell me that
during my 10 long weeks of agony
the stolen papers were in the
very room with me all the time?
And Joseph,
a villain and a thief!
From what I gather, he had lost
heavily dabbling in stocks,
and concealed the fact
from his father,
a man of strictly
conservative habits.
Yes, but his own
sister's happiness,
and your reputation,
your health!
He knew that you
often worked late,
and he was in town having dinner
with his stockbroker,
as he told me.
But he was free
by half past 9:00,
and called by your office,
entering through the side door.
Percy?
Finding no one in there
but the light on and work
evidently in progress,
he rang the bell.
The instant he did so, his eye
caught the paper on the table.
He knew at once that chance
had put in his way
a state document
of immense value,
returned alone to Woking
and concealed it in what he
thought was a very safe place,
intending to remove it
in a day or two,
and take it to
the French embassy
or wherever he thought
a long price was to be had.
There's nobody there,
there's nobody there!
Then came your sudden return.
Without a moment's warning
he was bundled out of his room
and from that moment on,
there were always at least
two of you in there,
preventing him from regaining
his treasure, maddening for him.
My suspicions
became certainties
when the attempt to break in
was made on the first night
that the hired nurse was absent,
which showed
that the intruder
was well accustomed
with the ways of the house.
At last,
he had his chance.
But you baffled him
with your wakefulness.
Yes! I didn't take
my sleeping draft!
But he had another chance
when you came up to London.
I kept Miss Harrison in the room
all day so as to anticipate him.
But if you already knew
the papers were in the room?
I thought
they probably were,
but I had no desire to rip up
all the skirting
in search of them.
By allowing him to lead me
to the hiding place,
I saved myself
an infinity of trouble.
And caught him red-handed!
Quite so.
Yes, but why did
he try the window
when he might have come in
through the door?
To appear to be a burglar,
and if necessary,
make good his escape
across the courtyard.
The knife,
you don't think he had
any murderous intentions?
My dear fellow,
I can only say that Mr. Joseph
Harrison is a gentleman
to whose mercy I should be
extremely unwilling to trust.
That will be a young lady
for you, Mr. Phelps.
Annie!
I left her a note to come
to London the moment she woke.
But Mr. Phelps,
she knows nothing as yet
of her brother's criminality.
Oh, yes.
My dear Holmes,
I can't thank you enough.
I shall go down at once
and explain everything.
Percy, good-bye,
and good luck!
Thank you for
restoring my happiness.
There's a young lady
at the door, sir.
Mr. Holmes, hot water!
Thank you.
Downloaded From www.AllSubs.org
Repair and Synchronization by
Easy Subtitles Synchronizer 1.0.0.0